This is the README file for the datalink library.

This is the datalink library for Linux.  It uses the SVGAlib to send data
to the Timex DataLink watches.  You will need SVGAlib installed and the
development headers and libraries for SVGAlib to compile against.

The original author is Karl R. Hakimian <hakimian@eecs.wsu.edu>, I have
extended the program to work with the Timex DataLink Ironman Triathlon
watch.  I do not have the ability to test the original model 70 or model 150
watches and I have only tested the SVGA output program.  The original
watches and serblink (serial blink) program may have been broken with
my code changes, I have no way to test them.

Compiling:
Just type `make` on the command line.
	$ make

Installing:
Type `make install` on the command line.
	% make install
The default locations of the installed programs are:

/usr/local/lib/libdatalink.so.1
/usr/local/lib/libdatalink.a
/usr/local/include/datalink.h
/usr/local/bin/svgablink
/usr/local/bin/serblink
/usr/local/bin/setwatch

Please note that the svgablink must be installed setuid root to use
the SVGAlib and change to graphics mode.  If you install as root
the default is to install setuid root.  If you are concerned about
security I suggest you have it setuid root and executable by
the group and not executable by the world.  Include only those
in the group who has a reason to run the program and you trust.
I do not know how much the original author has put into making
it secure, I know I haven't done anything along those lines.
If you have patches to fix any problems please email me (David).

Running:
The short version:
	Copy datafile from the source directory, make any changes.
Hit mode on your watch until you get to the "COMM READY V4.0" screen.
Run setwatch with the following arguements `setwatch -all datafile`.
If you have the model 70 or model 150 you have to add the option
-model150 or -150, or -model70 or -70 to the setwatch program.
The long version:
	Make a directory called .datalink in your home directory,
copy the datalink file from the source directory to that directory,
follow above directions adding any of the options to send specific
data to the watch.  Find all bugs, fix all bugs, send all patches
to me (David).

Suggestions:
	I have found my 15" monitor seems to send the data without
any problems, but my 19" monitor tends to corrupt some of the phone
data.  All of the packets have crc data in them, but the watch does not
indicate the data is bad, so check to make sure everything was transfered
correctly.  I may need to add code to adjust the spacing of the lines
on the monitor, I'm not sure what the problem is here.
	Running anything in the background can cause the program to not
function correctly.  SVGAlib appears to be polling the video card to
determine when the verticle sync occurs and if it misses it because
something else is running the watch may not get the data correctly.
I don't know how much of a problem this is, I just noticed it on
development of my additions.
	Improvements, suggestions, patches, comments e-mail me.  I am
also interested in how many people find this useful, please e-mail
if you just plan to use it, I would like to hear from you.
	If you work for Timex or have any influence, I would like
some documentation on these watches.  I have none.  I am aware
there is a software development kit that Timex put out, but I am
also told it contains only information on how to use their equivalent
of the datalink library.  I do not need this.  I need documentation
of the protocol and watch capabilities, that is what I need.  The
protocol was decoded by taking a light sensitive circuit, placing it
in from of a CRT screen that was flashing data from the Timex software,
recording it with a sound card, and useing software I wrote to
turn it back into data.  Then figuring out by hand what it means.
	When doing any transfers the chronograph and timer is stopped.
This is just so you know.

David Fries
dfries@mail.win.org
August 25, 1999
